<h2 align=center><b># AIR 2023 Internship</b></h2>
<p>
 This project is done under internship for AIR.
 This project uses php language.
 This project creates  an API with create,delete,login,read and update functions.
</p>

<h4>API</h4>h4>
<p>APIs are mechanisms that enable two software components to communicate with each other using a set of definitions and protocols. For example, the weather bureau’s software system contains daily weather data. The weather app on your phone “talks” to this system via APIs and shows you daily weather updates on your phone.

API stands for Application Programming Interface. In the context of APIs, the word Application refers to any software with a distinct function. Interface can be thought of as a contract of service between two applications. This contract defines how the two communicate with each other using requests and responses. Their API documentation contains information on how developers are to structure those requests and responses.</p>

 <h4>web API</h4>
 <p>A Web API or Web Service API is an application processing interface between a web server and web browser. All web services are APIs but not all APIs are web services. REST API is a special type of Web API that uses the standard architectural style.

The different terms around APIs, like Java API or service APIs, exist because historically, APIs were created before the world wide web. Modern web APIs are REST APIs and the terms can be used interchangeably.</p>

<h4>REST APIs</h4>
<p>REST stands for Representational State Transfer. REST defines a set of functions like GET, PUT, DELETE, etc. that clients can use to access server data. Clients and servers exchange data using HTTP.

The main feature of REST API is statelessness. Statelessness means that servers do not save client data between requests. Client requests to the server are similar to URLs you type in your browser to visit a website. The response from the server is plain data, without the typical graphical rendering of a web page.</p>

<h5>Benefits of REST APIs</h5>
<p>REST APIs offer four main benefits:

1. Integration 
APIs are used to integrate new applications with existing software systems. This increases development speed because each functionality doesn’t have to be written from scratch. You can use APIs to leverage existing code.

2. Innovation 
Entire industries can change with the arrival of a new app. Businesses need to respond quickly and support the rapid deployment of innovative services. They can do this by making changes at the API level without having to re-write the whole code.

3. Expansion
APIs present a unique opportunity for businesses to meet their clients’ needs across different platforms. For example, maps API allows map information integration via websites, Android,iOS, etc. Any business can give similar access to their internal databases by using free or paid APIs.

4. Ease of maintenance
The API acts as a gateway between two systems. Each system is obliged to make internal changes so that the API is not impacted. This way, any future code changes by one party do not impact the other party.</p>

<h4>different types of APIs</h4>
<p>APIs are classified both according to their architecture and scope of use. We have already explored the main types of API architectures so let’s take a look at the scope of use.

Private APIs
These are internal to an enterprise and only used for connecting systems and data within the business.

Public APIs 
These are open to the public and may be used by anyone. There may or may not be some authorization and cost associated with these types of APIs.

Partner APIs 
These are only accessible by authorized external developers to aid business-to-business partnerships.

Composite APIs 
These combine two or more different APIs to address complex system requirements or behaviors. </p>

<h4>API gateway</h4>
<p>An API Gateway is an API management tool for enterprise clients that use a broad range of back-end services. API gateways typically handle common tasks like user authentication, statistics, and rate management that are applicable across all API calls.</p>

<h4>API documentation</h4>
<p>Some best practices include:

Writing explanations in simple, easy-to-read English. Documents generated by tools can become wordy and require editing.
Using code samples to explain functionality.
Maintaining the documentation so it is accurate and up-to-date.
Aiming the writing style at beginners
Covering all the problems the API can solve for the users.</p>
